1. Write a shell script that reads command line arguments and prints the number of arguments.
Given this sequence of words as command line arguments “To the OS Laboratory at Alpha
Lab Welcome”, the script should echo back the information that there are 8 arguments.
Additionally it should echo back some of the arguments in the following order: “Welcome To
the OS Laboratory at Alpha Lab”

2. Write a shell script that asks for the values of 2 variables: userv1 and userv2, from the user
and takes in any type (real/integer/character/string). Try to perform the following operations
on the variables: (a) add, (b) multiply (c) subtract (d) division (e) printing the variables in
reverse order. Print appropriate error message/s if the operation cannot be performed,
otherwise print the result: “the sum of ‘userv1’ and ‘userv2’ is ….”. Execute the shell script
as many number of times the user wants. Show all possible combinations of the types of
variables and result/s of the corresponding operation/s.

3. Write a shell script a) to find out the total count of files and directories in any directory. b)
Also list the file and directory names separately with the respective counts. c) The script
should also print out the total size of the files created in the past week.

4. Write a shell script that counts and prints the total number of files in a particular directory and
in all of its sub-directories. Also (i) print total no. of files (not directories) in each
subdirectory with the name of the subdirectory, (ii) print only those file names that have been
created within the past week.

5. Write a shell script that takes 4 file names (Java program files) as command line arguments
and prints the frequency of the occurrences of the following 3 strings “public”, “class”, “int”
in each file. The output (in tabular format) should clearly denote the frequency of the
occurrences of each string in each file.

6. Write a shell script that accepts a file name as an input. The program then asks for a string of
characters to be provided by the user. The file will be searched to find whether it contains the
given word. (i) If the file contains the given word, the program will display the total number
of occurrences of the word. (ii) The program is also required to display the line number/s in
which the word has occurred as well the frequency of the word in that line. (Note: the word
may occur multiple times in a given line). (iii) If the file does not contain the word, an
appropriate message will be displayed. Consider partial match also.

7. Extend the shell script written in question (6) to perform the following task: User is asked to
enter another word. (i) The first word (entered in question (6)) to be replaced by the second
word, if a match occurs, (ii) Ignore replacing Partial matches, but show that (iii) partial
matches do exist, and (iv) match exists, if case sensitivity is ignored

8. Write a script called birthday_match.sh that takes two birthdays of the form DD/MM/YYYY
(e.g., 15/05/2000) and returns whether there is a match if the two people were born on the
same day of the week (e.g., Friday).

9. Write a shell program that finds the factorial of an integer and also mentions the time taken
to find out the corresponding factorial. Test the program for different integers.

10. Write a shell program to duplicate the UNIX rm command with the following features:
a. Instead of deleting the files, it will move them to a my-deleted-files directory. If the file
already exists in the my-deleted-files directory, then the existing file (in the my-deleted-
files) will have the version number zero (0) appended to it and the newly deleted file will
have version number one (1) appended to it, and so on.
b. The command will have a switch -cl that will clear the entire my-deleted-files directory
after asking for confirmation.
Date for submission [and viva] latest by: August 17th/19th/20th 2026 (respective group